[Music]
pressing them up that's okay yeah sure
yeah
so thank you very much for inviting me
how many people here are from England
how many from the United States how many
people are from the rest of the world
and where else Wow
how many people here think Oxford's the
best university in the world these how
many people think your parents think
that you're not working hard enough
anybody okay okay how many people here
know exactly what they're gonna do when
they graduate okay how many people have
no clue what they're gonna do okay how
many people want to work in private
equity okay all right here's what I'd
like to do today in the time I have and
I'll take questions I'd like to talk a
little bit about my own background
because it might be similar to some of
yours and tell you how I came to be in
the position where I was invited today
to speak then I'll talk about the
subject that was advertised which is
some global issues and then I'll take
questions on anything but he wants the
history philosophy philanthropy politics
Donald Trump which I usually get asked a
lot about anything I'll talk about
anything I don't know I can compete with
Monica Lewinsky a previous speaker in
some subjects but I'll I'll do the best
like that
so I am my last name is Rubenstein and
you know very often you could figure out
that that's a Jewish name and very often
people think if you have your Jewish in
the United States you probably have a
father who's wealthy or lawyer doctor
but actually there plenty of blue-collar
Jews my father dropped out of high
school to go into World War two he came
back he met my mother they married at if
what I think is a ridiculously young age
she was 17 he was 20 I was born more
than nine months later and my father
worked in the post office entire life
had never made more than seven thousand
dollars a year now in at the time when I
was growing up I thought wow that's not
great I don't have a lot of money but
it's a big big advantage to grow up in a
family it doesn't have a lot of money
because if you have the unconditional
love of two parents and you know you
have to do something with your life by
yourself it's a big advantage my
children have grown up in a wealthy
family it's a big disadvantage some of
you who come from very wealthy families
of any of you have that it sounds like
it's great but actually it can be a big
disadvantage particularly because if you
achieve anything people say well your
father bought that for you or your
mother bought this for you so actually
it was a big advantage though at the
time I didn't realize it I went to a
large public high school and was not you
know a particularly gifted student or
it's certainly not a great athlete but I
got a scholarship to go to a place
called Duke University some of you may
have heard of it it was not a basketball
scholarship I can assure you I was such
a bad basketball player that I was the
only person in Dukes history got cut
from an intramural basketball team with
only four other people on the team so I
had no money but I did okay and at
school but I what I wanted to do was to
go into public service and give back to
my country I was in the sixth grade when
John Kennedy was inaugurated president
I'd States and he said famously on
January 20th 1961 ask not what your
country can do for you but what you can
do for your country he was only a 14
minute speech it was a brilliant speech
it was poetry and prose form and it
really inspired my generation to do go
into public service the idea of making a
lot of money was not in that time
something that people thought about you
there were no hedge funds private equity
funds our technology startups it didn't
exist if you wanted to go into business
you either work for your father's
company or you worked at IBM or some
large company so the idea of going to
business wasn't on my my
my mind was to try to give back to my
country and to try to do something
useful and I was inspired by John
Kennedy so I thought I'd be a lawyer go
work in government and so I got it I
decide to go to law school and I applied
to many law schools and I was fortunate
to get into all of them but there was
one law school that I had applied to at
the last minute and they sent me a paper
saying I want a full scholarship so this
was the University of Chicago Law School
so I didn't really know the school but a
full scholarship my parents didn't have
any money so I said yes and they then
sent me a letter saying send in 50
dollars and you'll get your position
reserved for next year and then I got
another letter saying send in your $50
Reserve your housing I didn't actually
have a lot of $50 extras running around
so I said I'll send in $50 to the
housing people surely I'll tell the law
school I'm coming
that logic didn't actually work so I
showed up the first day of law school
and I said Here I am David Rubenstein
full scholarship recipient they said no
no you didn't send your $50 we gave that
scholarship with somebody else so I'm
starting to cry in the middle of the
realized my legal career is over my
chance to help my countries go on what
am I gonna tell my parents I lost the
scholarship all the other law schools
have already started finally I think
teether because I was crying so much or
they didn't wanted me to commit suicide
or something they came out and said I
will give you the scholarship so I got
it and since then I crying can well
again help
since then I've given them 40 million
dollars in scholarship money to make up
for it so it was a good day so I went to
law school and when I what I wanted to
do was to go work in government work at
the White House and be like John
Kennedy's people and so the person who
wrote that great speech for John Kennedy
was a man named Ted Sorensen the
greatest presidential speechwriter in
history so he was practicing law in New
York and affirmed that time called Paul
Weiss I went there I started practicing
law and worked for him
and after about a year or so it became
apparent to me that I wasn't that great
a lawyer because the clients would say
well how much longer you gonna do this
and if they put people in the firm
realized I wasn't a great lawyer they
said how much lawyer you're gonna stay
here so I got the hint that I wasn't
that good and you know if you're not
really enjoying something I didn't
really like to practice law and you're
not that good at it you should do
something that you're better at so I
realized I wanted to really go and
govern I didn't care about the practice
law so Ted Sorensen got me a job with a
man that he thought might be President
I'd stayed C helped me get an interview
and the man's name was Jimmy Carter I'd
never really heard of him but
was a peanut farmer from Georgia I got
an interview I went to got the job when
Jimmy Carter was running in 1976 against
Gerald Ford he was 33 points ahead of
Gerald Ford the incumbent president when
I joined and Carter won in the end after
my work by one point so people said well
you know Carter would say you know I was
33 points ahead before you showed up and
now I'm only won by one point so what
was your contribution but in the end as
we've observed people who work in White
House staffs are not their own merit
they worked in the campaign so at the
age of 27 I became the deputy domestic
policy adviser to the president's a job
I wasn't qualified for but I didn't
think Carter was qualified either he
didn't know anything I didn't know that
one of my jobs with the fight inflation
I got it to nineteen percent the highest
everything and you know there was a
rumor that if Carter was reelected I was
going to be the senior domestic policy
adviser and President Carter still
thinks to this day that's why he lost
the reelection to Ronald Reagan so I had
to go back and get another job we lost
the election to Ronald Reagan and be
careful what you wish were we wanted to
run against Ronald Reagan because we
said he's so old how could he possibly
run for president he's practically in a
wheelchair he should be practically in a
in an invalid we thought because he was
so old he was a person who we thought
just couldn't possibly be president I'd
say that that age of 69
now I'm 68 so now it doesn't look that
old today 68 69 looks like a teenager to
me but we thought he was too old so be
careful what you wish for he turned out
to be a very good debater tended to be a
much better candidate than we ever
thought but I thought okay after we lost
the election some of you will have the
same experience unfortunately people
will tell you how bright you are you
went to Oxford terrific you're brilliant
we want to hire you but when you
actually go to get hired by them they
might find an excuse so people that came
to came to me all the time and said we
want to hire you when you're ready to
leave the White House so the day after
we lost the election I started calling
all these people and none of them would
call me back because nobody wanted a
Carter White House a when the age of
Reagan was there so it took me a while
to find a job and even though I'd gone a
good law school and I'd go into a good
law firm I work in the White House
it took me allow and in January 20th
came Reagan was inaugurated I still
didn't have a job and then you know
February came March came April came make
a my didn't have a job I kept telling my
mother I have so many
job offers I don't know which one to
take I just can't pick them off and she
said well why don't you take one of
these up I finally I got a job somebody
felt sorry for me I started practicing
the law again and actually I realized
once again I wasn't a good lawyer and so
my client said to me what are you
thinking of doing next and my my law
firm partner said maybe you should think
of something else so then two things I
read changed my life and it led to the
point where I am today here one was I
read that a man named Bill Simon who had
been secretary of treasury in the Ford
administration he left the Ford
administration in for Carter became
president and what he did is he went out
and did something called a leveraged
buyout I didn't know what that was
but he put in a million dollars of his
own money and he made 80 million dollars
two and a half years later I realized
that was better than practicing law so I
said okay I want to do that I didn't
know what it was but I thought it was
profitable and if I was gonna be you
know not a good lawyer I might as well
be in the business side and make more
money so I went to a man named Bill
Miller who'd been Secretary of Treasury
in the Carter years and said why don't
you start a leveraged buyout for him in
Washington like Bill Bill's Simon did in
New Jersey and he didn't really want to
do it maybe because he didn't want me to
be part of it so in the end I came up
with the idea of starting my own
leveraged buyout firm in Washington the
first one ever there I didn't really
have any financial experience I don't
have any money I recruited three people
who had financial experience and said to
them that I had some money and mumble
that they should come and make a lot of
money they showed up I said I meant to
say to them that I was gonna get the
money I didn't really have it so I then
took about half a year to raise five
million dollars to start the firm and
today it's one of the largest private
equity firms in the world it's a global
firm we've we we manage about a hundred
and seventy five billion dollars and
we've been fabulously successful in
investing money we've averaged about a
twenty seven percent rate of return
gross rate of return per year for thirty
years so if you put your money in the
bank you get 0.1% perhaps we've averaged
27 percent a year on investing more than
a hundred billion dollars so that's
produced a very good financial situation
for me and my partner's and Forbes
magazine a few years ago had an article
about my net worth and I realized when I
read it that probably was reasonably
accurate and I had a lot of more money
than I needed and I didn't know exactly
what's the best thing to do with it so
when you have money and all of you
probably think this is a funny thing to
say you know you it's not that easy to
figure out what to do with a lot of
money you know let's suppose each of you
had
I said to each of you I'm gonna give you
Bill Gates's problem I'm gonna give you
a hundred billion dollars all right so
you're gonna quickly go buy a house
another house a boat a plane artwork and
then you've got ninety nine billion left
what are you gonna do so you know that's
Bill Gates's problem I didn't have quite
that much money but I had a fair amount
and so what we can do with money these
are the things you can do what the
ancient Pharaoh's did you can build
pyramids and take your wealth with you
and be buried in it I hope you leave
that wealth in the afterlife but there's
no evidence you really need the wealthy
afterlife so you've eliminate that
second you can buy a lot of things you
just keep buying everything you can how
many planes you want more planes more I
work but after a while it gets tiring to
have too many things so then you
basically have to decide if you can't
spend it on more things you have to give
it away and you can give it away in
three ways one you can give it away to
your children and that's a great
tradition throughout human history give
it to your children but you may not
agree with this but you can spoil your
children by giving them each a billion
dollars you know if you inherit a
billion dollars you know is that gonna
make you a hardworking person nobody's
ever won a Nobel Prize inheriting a
billion dollars they inherit a billion
dollars they're not gonna work hard
enough to win a Nobel Prize so I thought
I didn't want to ruin my children's life
I'm not sure they completely agree with
me but I didn't want to ruin my
children's life by giving up a lot of
money so I thought I'd give them a good
education and that would be then they'd
be on their own so then you have two
other things you can do with your money
you can give it away while you're alive
which is a very common thing to do or
you can wait to your died because you're
not sure how much money you're gonna
you're gonna need to before the end of
your life and just let your executor
give it away but I didn't think I would
I would really be in a place where I
could see where my executor was doing
with the money so I decided to give my
money away and as I was thinking about
it bill Gates called me and he said he
was starting the Giving Pledge and it
says you give away half your money upon
your death or doing your life time and I
said I'm gonna give it all away so I
signed the giving pledge there were 40
of us who initially signed it and I've
been very actively involved in that
movement and as I've given away the
money I give it away to the educational
institutions a lot I've been on the
board of Hopkins Harvard now and a
chairman of the board at Duke as you
heard and and univers Chicago a lot to
education a lot to medical research but
one area that I've done a little bit
more than other people have is come
think I've coined the phrase were called
patriotic philanthropy and that means
giving money back to remind people of
country of its history and its heritage
the good in the bad so on I had a chance
wants to buy the copy of the Magna Carta
I bought the only copy in private hands
of the Magna Carta there are 17 extant
copies 15 in England one in Australia
and there was one that Ross Perot had
bought in United States he'd actually
bought it from a family that had it in
his possession in England for five
hundred years he sent his lawyer over to
buy it he negotiated price in nineteen
in the early 1980s he the lawyer rolled
up the Magna Carta in a tube got the
British customs I said what's in that
coop he said the Magna Carta they said
oh sure go ahead and and he took it out
of the yeah I've since bought it from
him and I have put it on display in the
National Archives to make sure that
Americans can see this because it was
very important to our history as well as
the history here and then I bought other
historic documents the Declaration the
pendants the Thirteenth Amendment freed
slavery's they meant sleeve slaves the
emancipation proclamation of Bill of
Rights and put them on display so
Americans can see them because our
country doesn't really know our history
so well my thought is that people can
see these original documents they might
be inspired to learn more about our
history it's really sad now that we
don't teach civics in my country anymore
and we don't require people to take
American history so you say surveys like
this right now
recent survey by in the University of
Pennsylvania organizations showed that
three-quarters of Americans seventy five
percent cannot name the three branches
of our government and 25 percent of our
people cannot even name one branch of
government it turns out that when asked
high school sophomores the United States
were asked to name the three to give the
first three names of any founding
fathers they were unable to do that on
average what most of them could name the
first three names of the three stooges
rather than the first three names of the
founding fathers 35% of Americans when
asked what River to George Washington
cross during the Revolutionary War said
the Rhine River which happens not to be
in our country and there's a TV
personality you knighted States named
Judge Judy maybe some of you've heard of
her well ten percent of Americans think
she's on the United States Supreme Court
so and course not yet she hasn't been
appointed yet but in any event I I think
that I'm trying to get Americans to
learn more about our history on the
theory that if you're more informed you
may be will be better citizens to be
better citizens maybe we'll have a
better democracy and then in that vein
I've tried to find historic sites and
fix them up so when the Washington
Monument had its earthquake damage I
decided I would you know put up the
money to fix it and
the same thing is true with Thomas
Jefferson's home Monticello or James
Madison's home Montpelier or other kind
of historic things and try to fix them
up so more people will visit them and
and see them and in the end what I've
tried to do is is say to myself and
everybody here should say this as well
you know you're on this earth for a very
short period of time
now as students you're relatively young
the last thing you're thinking about is
the end of your life but as you get
closer to the end of your life as I am
I'm 68 I have an actuarial life of maybe
85 if I live you know the normal life is
band what are you going to do with the
rest what are you going to do to justify
your existence on the face of the earth
all of you are put here for some reason
nobody knows exactly why we're here but
we are we're here for a relatively short
stand humans have been on Homo sapiens
I'm on the face of the earth for roughly
two hundred thousand years and you're
gonna live anywhere from 80 to 100 years
if you're lucky and but that's a very
short time span what is it that you're
gonna do that justifies why you're here
and what are you going to do that makes
you feel you've done something that you
can be proud of with your life or
something that your parents can be proud
of your partners can be proud of your
children can be proud of so you know as
you think about it one of the things
that I think is most important is to try
to help other people you know helping
yourself isn't such a wonderful thing
but the most important thing that
probably distinguishes humans from other
species is that humans have a natural
tendency to want to help other humans
not just people in their own family and
I think to some extent I made a mistake
in not focusing on philanthropy and
giving back to others until I really was
wealthy I should have done it earlier
and I would be much happier today I
would like to remind people that
philanthropy is an ancient Greek word
that means giving a loving humanity
doesn't mean rich people writing cheques
so all of you while you're focused on
your studies you should think about what
you can do to make the world a slightly
better place what your community you can
do to make your community a slightly
better place your country a slightly
better place or your neighborhood
something so you can say when you get to
my age or younger this is what I did to
justify my presence on the face of the
earth this is what my mark is this is
what I did to show people that I did
something useful with my life you know
you can have a lot of degrees but if you
don't do anything useful what you what
good is having the degrees so the
degrees are really a means to enable you
to do something useful am I
and I hope if you take anything away
from what I'm saying it is that you have
an opportunity because you're all gifted
your wouldn't be at Oxford if you
weren't gifted take advantage of that
gift do think of something that no one
else is doing like I did in patriotic
philanthropy nobody else was doing the
kind of things I was doing and and and
do something useful give back to your
society and you'll feel much better
about it and I try to remind people that
for people that are involved in
philanthropy you're likely to live a
longer life and you're likely to have a
special place in heaven reserved for you
when your time does come now you might
laugh at that but why would you you know
take a chance that I'm wrong
so think about the things that you might
be able to do to make your the world a
slightly better place your country a
slightly better place so let me in the
remaining time I have before I take
questions address the subjects I was
supposed to talk about so let me just
talk briefly about the economy and let
me at the economy first and then I'll
geopolitical events the the the economy
in the Western world and actually around
the world today is in pretty good shape
now the surprising thing is that is in
good shape for this reason since World
War two Western society the United
States and Western Europe have had
recessions on average every seven years
the last great recession ended more or
less in June of 2009 seven years later
would be June of 2016 so we didn't have
a recession in June Taos June of 2016 we
haven't had one this year we're not
likely to have one before the end of
this year or next year so we are
actually in a very extended growth
pattern and that's good because when you
have more growth you have more people
employed you have full employment
economies do better and so forth people
are happier but we have to recognize
that at some point there's going to be a
slowdown and when the slowdown occurs we
have to recognize that it could be
severe again just as it wasn't the Great
Recession so I think people have to move
forward with the economy as we see it
but we have to be very prepared for a
potential slowdown that could come now I
don't know exactly when it's going to
come nobody really knows economists are
not really good at predicting the future
in that regard but that's a problem that
we have around the global economy but
three other or four other problems I
want you to focus on is this about the
economy my
point is it's really really pretty good
right now it will slow down it won't be
so good and maybe six months maybe a
year maybe a year and a half more more
likely maybe two years from now the
global economy has these issues one
income inequality the income inequality
in Western society is getting worse my
country it's worse than it's ever been
worse than it was in the Great Recession
a Great Depression
so the wealthiest 1% of our my in my
country own roughly ten percent of all
the assets the wealthiest 10% own
roughly sixty or seventy percent of all
the assets and our wealth in our country
and this is true in Western Europe as
well the income inequality is growing
and it's growing for a number of reasons
in my country in one part it's because
we are not educating a large part of our
society in my country in the city I
lived Washington DC 25% of the people
who enter high school public high school
don't graduate
if you don't graduate from public high
school you're not likely to earn a very
good income and if you don't learn how
to read you're in worse off many people
who graduated high school dropped out
because they can't read and illiteracy
is a gigantic problem in my country
twelve percent of the people in my
country cannot read they can't read and
if you can't read you're more likely to
be in the prison system more likely to
be a juvenile delinquent so the income
inequality in United States and Western
Europe is actually growing that's a big
problem a second problem is demographics
in Western society Western society
Western Europe United States the
populations are aging they're aging
because we have better health better
nutrition when people first came out of
caves 200,000 years ago the average life
expectancy was 20 in 1900 in Western
Europe and the United States the average
life expectancy was 49 today it's
roughly 80 or so so as people age we
have many more people to feed many more
people to deal with climate change
issues today when I was born there were
two and a half billion people in the
face of the earth in 1949 now there are
seven half billion people where I'm
projected I actually will be 9 billion
people before you're projected to die
actually there'll probably be 12 to 15
billion people so as we have the limited
amount of resources in the globe we have
to realize we have these growing
populations and people are aging and
aging and aging the Europe the average
age is 40 is 41 averaged agents are
pandas 45-day average age United States
is 36
Europe is aging in part as the United
States because people are not
reproducing enough in Europe your
population is stayed roughly the same a
population a woman of childbearing age
has to have 2.1 children and their
childbearing years Europe is averaging
maybe 1.4 1.5 some countries maybe 1.6
but if Europe is therefore not
reproducing itself the population is
going down the younger people are not
coming along enough and the older people
are living longer and so you have this
demographic problem in Western society
which is going to cost all of you a lot
of money one of the related issues is we
have guaranteed in Western societies
very large pension benefits the people
and large social network for people and
the cost of that is very high in my
country we now have 20 trillion dollars
of debt 20 trillion dollars of debt when
I was in the government in the Carter
years we had less than 1 trillion now we
have 20 trillion somebody's gonna have
to pay that off and so in the end what
we're going to have to do is we're gonna
have to cut the benefits for elderly
people got the benefits for people who
are disabled cut the benefits for people
who are who need a social net otherwise
we are not going to be able to survive
as a society because there's not gonna
be enough money the same is gonna be
true in Europe so the problem is you've
got a demographic problem you we have
people living too long to some extent
which is not a bad issue but it's
unfortunate that we can't afford the
people living as long as we can unless
we have more money and that relates to
another issue that we have governments
are in the Western world have have
borrowed too much money we have enormous
amount of debt in Western European
countries and and the United States and
other in Japan enormous amount of debt
that somebody's gonna pay off and I'm
looking at the people gonna pay off a
lot of this debt because you're gonna
have to work hard to pay off the debt to
pay for the retirements of and the
pension benefits of many other people so
there aren't the economy is reasonably
good now but there are some problems we
should worry about one of them as I
mentioned is the debt another is the the
demographic issues not enough young
people too many older people and and
another problem is the income inequality
let me shift for a moment to the
geopolitical situation today the world
is is has some major geopolitical issues
they're always going to be geopolitical
issues what is the most significant one
today in my view it's the uncertainty in
the turmoil in the Middle East
Iran is still country that is maybe in
some people's view fostering some things
around the other parts of the world that
aren't wonderful but there's uncertainty
in Iran there is uncertainty now in in
in Syria Syria's had a terrible civil
war hundreds of thousands of people been
killed there's no real end in sight
maybe somewhat of an end but it's not
likely to be anytime soon
Iraq still suffers from the problems of
the invasion of the United States you
have the problems in Israel and
Palestine still not coming together you
have problems of of in Turkey there's
the uncertainty of many parts of Turkey
about the government the problems of the
Kurds and so forth in Iraq so you have a
lot of uncertainty in the Middle East
and and the Terrorism that exists
because of Isis or al-qaeda is something
that can spread throughout the world not
just the Middle East so that's probably
the greatest geopolitical problem I
don't think there's any great solution
anybody has do it nobody seems to have
come up with a great solution for Syria
nobody has a great solution for Iraq
nobody has a great solution for the Iran
Saudi Arabia related issues and of
course there are a number of wars going
on now in in other parts of the Middle
East like Yemen a second issue is the
spread of nuclear weapons now north
korea has brought this to the table and
the forefront north korea probably has
some nuclear weapons they probably can't
deliver them but if they are able to
deliver them that changes the the the
equation a great deal in the far east
and maybe even in the united states
because they might be able to launch
missiles to the united states but it
north korea is not the only country that
wants nuclear weapons other countries
probably are interested in getting them
and might try to get them if North Korea
gets them if North Korea we got north
nuclear weapons and militarized them it
might be this ace at South Korea or
Japan might want to do the same and you
have other countries in the Middle East
that might be interested in nuclear
weapons as well if Iran were to get
nuclear weapons at some point so the
whole spread of nuclear weapons is a
major problem as well I think then
you've got the third problem of refugees
we have refugees from Syria in other
parts of the world to come into Europe
and other parts of the world and we
haven't really dealt with that issue
adequately in terms of how to deal with
with that last issue I mention is the
United States the United
States has been a leader in the
post-world War two of the global
political military economic environment
I think right now we are not seen by
people around the rest of world as being
able to fulfill those roles at the way
we did before maybe you could say it's
because of Donald Trump maybe it's for
other reasons but there's no doubt that
the United States is not playing the
same role that used to and I think the
United States and Western Europe should
recognize that the power in the world is
really shifting from the west to the
east
you know from most of the 20th century
the West really dominated the the global
economy of global political scene global
military scene I think now we're seeing
in the 21st century a shift to power in
in Asia particularly China and and will
be India as well and therefore the
wealth of the world the power of the
world the military might of the world
might shift from the Western world to
the eastern world and as those of us who
live in the Western well at least were
right here in the Western world we have
to recognize we have to make adjustments
the us-china relationship is probably
the most important bilateral
relationship in the world and now it's
in reasonably good shape but a book has
come out recently by a Harvard professor
who said that actually there's something
called that the lucidity strap which
it's more or less means that when you
have a rising power like China if you go
back through history you often see
rising powers getting into military
confrontations with with the reigning
power if the United States is the
reigning power you could argue that
China or as a rising power there might
be a military confrontation now the
Chinese don't agree with that view some
people in America don't agree with it
but it's something that we should think
about which is to say how is the United
States going to deal with the fact that
China is ultimately going to replace it
as the biggest economy in the world
probably the biggest military power the
world and maybe the most important
political force in the world and the
United States having their justed that
is a geopolitical issue that we have to
have to answer and address let me pause
there and say I'm happy to take
questions about anything that I talked
about or anything I didn't talk about I
didn't really talk too much about
business didn't talk much about the
Donald Trump I didn't talk much about
other things you might be interested but
fire away any questions yes sir if you
just wait - okay okay
David thank you very much for coming
tonight so one of the two co-ceos you've
recently appointed as mr. Cao soonly of
Korean descent
and my question is how do you intend to
place Carlisle an American investor in
Asia and you see mr. Lee playing any
particular role in that effort okay what
he's referring to is this I started
Carlo in 1987 and I brought in some
other partners for the 30 years or so
I'd been the co-ceo we announced a few
weeks ago that I was going to step down
as the co-ceo and make myself the co
executive chairman and my theory was
that you know when you still in your 60s
it's better to do this when you're in
your 70s when your company's in good
shape it doesn't look like you're being
pushed out and there are a lot of other
things I want to spend some time on
including increasing my commitment to
philanthropy and so forth so we decided
we had some very talented people who we
didn't have as the next CEOs one of them
is a guy who actually lived in England
for a long time for us Glen Duncan
Harvard Business School graduate been
with us for 23 years another one is cue
song Lee a Korean American who went to
Harvard Harvard Business School and he
has lived his whole life in the United
States and so his being korean-american
isn't necessarily gonna change our focus
on Asia we are the biggest private
equity investor in China now of the
global firms and we have a big presence
in Asia and I do think that's where a
lot of the growth is going to be today
in the private equity world 83 percent
of all the private key dollars are
invested in the Western world only 17
percent in the in the emerging markets
and and merging markets have depending
on how you calculate between 45 and 55
percent of the global wealth and it's
rising so gradually the 17 percent will
rise and I think more and more effort
will be made to by firms like us to put
more money in China Southeast Asia India
I wouldn't say kusang Li because the
Korean America will make a difference in
that but our overall focus is to is to
put more money in the emerging markets
so-called and the emerging markets for
those one of the wonder where that
phrase came from there was a man who
worked at the World Bank in 1981 and he
was trying to raise a fund to invest the
publicly traded stocks of countries like
Taiwan Thailand Mexico and he went in
front of a group of about this size and
said he's going to call this a third
world fund and people said that seem
pejorative he said I called an
undeveloped world fund they said that's
even worse so
over the weekend he went home and he
came up with an idea of calling it an
emerging market fund because everybody
likes to emerge and so that phrase took
hold and now for the last X number of
years we've been calling a lot of
countries emerging markets but Nene and
China is the second biggest economy in
the world maybe the biggest and it's
still hard to keep calling an emerging
market but that's what we call it these
emerging markets of China India Brazil
among others are where the real growth
is going to be in the global economy and
that's why our investors are going to
put more and more their time and
attention yes ma'am okay thank you for
speaking to us tonight sure so my
question is you've talked a lot about
preserving American history um
and what are your thoughts about the
Confederate monuments that are currently
the Confederate monuments in the South
that are currently being disregarded cuz
you talked about being committed to the
good and the bad industry okay so when I
decided to put up money to repair
Monticello which is Thomas Jefferson's
home I one of the slave quarters to be
built out so people could see that he
was a slave owner and it's it's one of
the in incan paradoxes of American life
we had Thomas Jefferson wrote in the
famous declaration independence that
might not be that popular in this
country but he said that all men are
created equal we hold these truths to be
self-evident that all men are created
equal but he owned 100-plus slaves and
he had two slaves with him when he wrote
that so how could we how can we say all
men are created equal and not even
mentioned women ultimately the the in
America we had slavery and it was
embodied in our Constitution basically
we allowed for another 20 years slaves
to be imported and we was a birth defect
in our Constitution and ultimately it
led to the Civil War and then after the
Civil War while we ended slavery we went
to Jim Crow laws that provide a lot of
discrimination and I wanted to make sure
that people understood when they see
great men like Thomas Jefferson that
they they had flaws among their flaws
they were slave owners George Washington
was a slave owner Thomas Jefferson was a
slave owner James Madison's slave owner
I think eight of the first eleven
presidency United States had been or
were slave owners the only one founding
father if all the founding fathers
actually freed his slaves upon his
that and even that one was done a little
unusual George Washington on his in his
will said I will I want my slaves to be
freed upon the death of my wife now how
would you like to be Martha Washington
sitting around Mount Vernon knowing that
all these slaves know as soon as you die
they're free so she didn't wait sea
freedom but I I think you need to show
the good in the bad of history and in in
terms of the Confederate monuments what
people would you're referring to is this
not after the Civil War but probably in
the 1890s our country began to maybe
because of racist reasons in the south
they began to idolize people like robert
e lee or other civil war veterans and
and civil war heroes from the south and
monuments were built to them they're
their images were carved in mountains
and statues were built now people say
well why are we idolizing these people
who really fought to defend slavery and
so there's been a real relook at this
i'm the chairman of the Smithsonian
Institution in Washington and one of the
proposals in Congress is that all the
Congressional Medal all the
Congressional monuments that are
honoring Confederate generals be given
to the Smithsonian to store somewhere
and I don't know if that bill will pay
us but there's no doubt that people are
read looking at how great figures in
history acted and we are looking back
with today's moral standards but I think
it's fair to look back and say these
people did things today we don't think
is appropriate but I don't know that we
necessarily should destroy every
monument but we should make certain at
least for purpose of history we we know
what people thought for example in the
Middle East right now many alqaeda and
predict the Isis have destroyed historic
monuments that are thousands of years
old and so that's we don't like that
we're trying to preserve these things
the Smithsonian other people are trying
to preserve and so we know what history
is like so some of the Confederate
monuments memorials maybe they serve a
purpose to show what people thought
about these people at a certain given
time but there's no doubt that we have
to recognize that the Confederacy was
really about preserving slavery to some
extent and that's not a good thing yes
sir
thank you very much for sharing your
your family background with us my mom is
actually a mail carrier so you know your
points about how it can be it right and
an advantage coming from a working-class
background really resonated with me
before I asked the question can I just
see a show of hands who in this room
comes from a working-class background
yeah so we see some hands but maybe if
we would have asked the same questions
when you get a went to school we would
have seen a couple of more hands so why
why do you think that is why do you
think social mobility is is more
difficult nowadays than it was before
and what can we do about that well if I
knew that answer I'd be running for
president states there is a income
inequality is something that is getting
worse not better in the United States
and I think in Western Europe and I
analogize it to a something in physics
it was thought for a while that after
the Big Bang Theory that the Stars and
and the universe was expanding but then
it was going to come and come back and
it was shrinking and coming back to the
center we now know that was wrong
actually the universe is expanding and
it's the same thing with income equality
we thought as we got better educated
more sophisticated we could design
economic systems that bring people back
to the middle it turns out that as
sophisticated as we are it's going the
opposite way it's it's like the universe
it's expanding and the income inequality
is worse I think it's going to take
decades if not generations before you
can fix it at least in my country
because a better education and so forth
but social mobility is a different issue
social mobility deals with the ability
of people at the bottom to rise to the
top now in in our case we call the
United States the so-called American
dream that you can come in as an
immigrant or from a blue-collar family
and you work hard you can get to the top
there's a sense now I'm particularly
among minorities in United States that
that opportunity is gone or reduced and
that very often people in the underclass
don't think they can do what I did they
don't think they can rise up III think
that's
unfortunately I do think generally if
you work hard and you're smart you will
probably do better in life than if
you're lazy and dumb but that's not
always the case generally people though
who have changed the world come from
blue-collar fact backgrounds or lower
middle class it's rare that somebody was
born into the Forbes 400 and invented
Amazon or invented you know great
companies that generally if you look at
the great entrepreneurs and you look at
the people in the Forbes 400 at least
the United States these are people came
from blue-collar backgrounds sometimes
dysfunctional families and and also from
lower middle-class families if you're in
the wealthy if you're born to what great
wealth it's actually a big disadvantage
if you're gonna try to be an
entrepreneur because you're usually I'm
not going to be hungry enough you're not
gonna be dedicated enough if you're
gonna be an entrepreneur like Jeff Bezos
or Steve Jobs or with you know Mark
Zuckerberg coming from a not wealthy
family gives you much more Drive and so
that's why I said in the beginning I
feel advantage to have have no money
when I grew up by the time I didn't know
that my children have a big disadvantage
because it's hard for them that to be as
driven as I am because they just know
that I've got enough money they probably
are not going to be on the street
anytime soon other questions here go
ahead thank you for your presentation
Carlyle Group is notorious for being
heavily involved in geopolitics right
and has also been it's controversial for
accusations of insider information and
business model heavily reliant on the
the world of politics okay how much was
this envisioned I mean not the
controversial part but envisioned in
when in your planning uh and how much
they just uh I mean I try to address
what you're talking about
when if you go back and look at the
business plans of Carlyle Blackstone
Apple Microsoft Amazon the business
plans that the the founders created they
are no relationship to the company that
actually was started that that grew
because you have to evolve in business
and you just you don't involve you if
you stay with their business plan for
five ten fifteen years it's going to be
out of date
so we had a business plan that was
basically starting a private equity firm
in Washington and because we were in
Washington we thought we could take an
advantage that we understood government
better than people in New York so we'd
say we will invest in companies heavily
affected by government and we'll
understand those better than the guys in
New York it sounded good I'm not sure it
was really true in the early days nobody
ever heard of me and so we had an
opportunity to bring in the former
Secretary of Defense from Ronald Reagan
named Frank Carlucci he was looking for
a position to kind of be associated or
firm to be associated with I brought him
in and then later Jim Baker was
available former Secretary of State then
George Herbert Walker Bush was available
then John Major from this country was
available and I made them advisors
partners consultants it worked
reasonably well in the sense that people
knew who we were because we would have
them if I would invite you to a dinner
to hear me to make a speech nobody would
show up but if I invited you'd have here
dinner dinner speech with George Herbert
Walker Bush he would show up and
therefore people got to know us and it
gave us more brand recognition
unfortunately when George W Bush became
president and he was somebody who had
served in one of our boards but I had
the you know one time suggest maybe get
off the board because I didn't think it
was you know it was probably a good
thing for him to be on the board he
became president I'd never thought he'd
be presidents he gave an interview
somewhere where I said something like if
you'd asked me to name you know a
million people who are equality to be
president I'd say George W Bush win them
in one of them and unfortunately I
thought it was off the record in one of
the New York Times and front-page New
York Times before he's elected of week
before he's running for election and he
got elected and I saw him afterwards I
said I'm sorry about that article in The
New York Times that said I didn't think
you were qualified
there were million people more qualified
he said I don't read the New York Times
what was in it
what happened was when he became
president george w bush alton when he
led the invasion of Iraq we were blamed
for Iraq because his father was
affiliated with us and we had Jim Baker
and so it was really painful because
people thought that we were supporting
the Iraq war we had nothing to do with
the Iraq war but ultimately we tried to
transition and those people left the
firm and we no longer go out and hire
former government people because we're
well-known enough we don't really use
inside information that's kind of
illegal but but there is a perception
that we do understand governments and
the truth is all the private IP firms
understand government's if you know
governments do how heavily affect the
way business is operates so
understanding government isn't the
advice but we don't really go out and
hire government people so much anymore
because I don't want people to think
we're doing anything inappropriate
so we evolved out of that 15 plus years
ago other yes yes sir so one of the key
aspects between the relation in the
relationship between the west and east
as vacant on the cooperation and as I'm
sure you know there are a lot of Western
and especially American companies that
have quite a tough time in China right
and obviously Carlyle had their own
experience in China I guess my question
is what what would your recommendation
be for Western American companies going
to China dealing with the government or
anything else I think the greatest place
in the world in which to invest on
Bavasi bias is the United States it's a
big market the rule of law the
transparency the quality of financing
opportunities the quality executives the
quality of the the infrastructure it's a
great place in which to invest and
probably while we're not going to grow
at five percent per annum anytime soon
or maybe never again it's still a pretty
safe place to invest and and and
therefore I would say the best place in
the world in which to invest but outside
the United States the greatest country
in the world to invest is easily China
given 1.4 billion people a growth rate
for the last 30 years of 10 percent the
last couple years per annum ten percent
I last couple years six and a half
percent probably gonna grow at six
percent or so for quite a time in the
future the the country is my view
very capitalistic in many ways if you
look at UN statistics one out of every
ten adult Chinese is an odd
preneur by the UN definition a higher
percentage than any other country when I
go and meet with Chinese government
officials they know more about my
business than I do in some cases when I
meet with members of Congress have to
explain to them what a hedge fund is
what a mutual fund is what a private
equity fund is they don't know that
Chinese government people they seem to
know they're very involved and
understand the way the business world
works so I think the key if you're going
to invest in China is to have local
people on the ground everybody we have
in China we have about 15 18 percent of
our entire workforces in China they're
all local Chinese but we don't take
Yankees incentive the China
yeah that's not impossible strategy to
make work but we don't do that we hire
hire local people make sure you
understand what the government is
thinking trying to fight the government
isn't generally productive so while
we've had our challenges sometimes the
do deals in China generally we've we've
done well we've done about a hundred
transactions we've made a fair amount of
money and we try to make it clear that
we are not there to permanently replace
Chinese companies we are there to help
companies and ultimately we'll sell them
to others who might be Chinese owners
some of the large companies like GE and
others have complained about China
because the Chinese government doesn't
really want GE buying companies and
making it part of GE forever but in our
case from private equity people we're
buying companies we're holding them for
a relatively short period of time and
we're typically selling them probably to
local people so I think knowing the
rules of the game knowing government
officials an appropriate way I'm having
local people is probably the best thing
to do and spend a lot of time there I go
to China six or seven times a year we
have a lot of people there the senior
people in our firm are always in China
so making sure that people understand
what you're dealing with is important
and therefore you have to have your
senior people there a lot yes ma'am
yes right here thank you for your
wonderful speech I wanted to know what
is your opinion about the so-called
culture of greed in while Wall Street
doctor agreed well you know throughout
the history of the world at least the
last thousand or 2,000 years when you've
had more or less semi capitalistic or
capitalistic systems as people get
wealthy they tend to like to be wealthy
they'd like to get the benefits of
having money
and therefore greed is a a vice if you
want to use the word vice that's been
around for quite some time I'm not sure
Wall Street or the United States where
Wall Street is any greedier today then
people were a hundred years ago or a
thousand years ago but it's more visible
because it's more transparent where
people write about it I do think that
people in Wall Street to some extent are
very focused on making money that's how
they measure their success and so forth
and there is a obsession with how much
money you're gonna make
I do think that people in Wall Street
are often very philanthropic they
recognize after a while how much money
do you really need so people on Wall
Street are philanthropic they have a bad
image because people don't around the
world don't generally think of showing
the United States I really love Wall
Street people they're so nice they're
charming they're there they're there
kind to animals and so forth they don't
really think that they think that Wall
Street people only care about money so
you can be a politician United States
and always run against Wall Street and
do well there's no doubt that Wall
Street doesn't focus on the making of
money I don't think it's worse today
than it was 10 years ago 20 years ago 30
years ago but it's more transparent and
because we keep lists of how much money
people make and how wealthy they are
people know more about it before them
than before but I don't know that it's
any worse than it's been before right
now while she is doing quite well and so
they're making a lot of money there that
might change in time but clearly when
the Great Recession happen United States
Wall Street took the brunt of the blame
maybe correctly in some cases and they
were penalized a bit but I think we're
now a little bit past that and we're not
blaming them for all the sins of our
society as much as we were before so I'm
surprised I haven't had one question
about Donald Trump everywhere I go
around the world that's the first
question but okay people here don't care
about him okay yes right here I just
want to ask about effective altruism
so I mean 400 odd thousand people died
of malaria last night you can buy
mosquito net for five dollars
why is restoring Monticello a better use
of your money well in it there's when
you have the opportunity to give away
money you can pick anything you want
that's a great thing about Western
society people don't tell you what you
have to do with your money
now there's poverty in the United States
I live in the United States why should I
not put all my money towards eliminating
power
rather than malaria in some other part
of the world I'm not living in the other
part of the world so you can argue that
an American who's made his money in
America should give his money to
eliminating poverty reducing poverty
malaria is something that Bill Gates and
others have focused on and I give them a
lot of credit for it but I don't have
enough money to solve the problems of
malaria now you could say any money I
give away I should give to malaria but
what about cancer what's wrong with
solving the problems of cancer what's
wrong with solving the problems of of
mental health health problems what's
wrong with solving the problems of AIDS
so you can have a list of large numbers
of things that you could say why don't
you give your money to that and you know
so it's a it's an endless game so why
didn't I give money to malaria well I
give money to a lot of Health Research
and more of my money goes to health
research and it doesn't get as much
attention
I've given 50 million dollars to for
research relating to pancreatic cancer
which is a very deadly form of cancer it
has a 2% survival rate after five years
but nobody pays attention to that it
doesn't get much attention because so
many people are giving money as they
should to medical research so I give a
lot of money to that but I nobody
actually actually cares that much about
it because how many people are doing it
so to answer your question I I guess you
know there's a infinite list of things I
could say that I could do better than
restoring monuments but in my case
nobody else is doing that a lot of
people are giving money to malaria
research so I'm trying to find something
that is distinctive and I can say I did
that nobody else is doing in my
philanthropy I look for things I don't
have the wealth of Bill Gates oh I can't
tackle global poverty in Africa I don't
have that capability so I look for
things where my money will get something
started that wouldn't otherwise get
started my money will finish something
that wouldn't otherwise get started and
it will likely be seen during my
lifetime to have some impact and where
I'll have an intellectual interest and
want to stay involved I love you that
philanthropist should not just write
checks they should stay involved be
involved in the boards be involved in
helping the organizations so malaria
which is a very serious problem and has
killed many people I think that the
Gates Foundation has done a wonderful
job on that with others in Africa among
other places and I think it's kind of
the meed the need is being met by other
people and they're doing it better than
I could do it yeah yes sir
my question is if you were to recommend
a book that you think young people
should read or a book that has inspired
you the most over the course of your
life what book would that be and why
well let me answer it this way when I
was growing up I couldn't afford to buy
books my family to have the money for it
so when you in my city would I grew up
Baltimore you could get a library card
and take books out of the library when
you were six years old so when I was six
years old I got a library card you were
allowed to take out twelve books a week
I would read them all on the first day
and I had to wait to the next week
before I could take another twelve books
out reading became a very important part
of my life I now read try to read and I
do read about a hundred books a year and
I try to read books in areas that I'm
interested in and I have programs to
educate people about things I've read so
I started a program to educate members
of Congress about American history this
so I have a program every month I get a
great author Doris Kearns Goodwin David
McCullough and a couple days I'll do Ken
Burns I have and I have a dinner with
members of Congress I do it at the
library Congress I invite members of
Congress only we get about 300 members
of Congress coming in I interview the
author about the book and then I have
members of Congress ask questions and
they learn a lot and I actually have
required the Democrats and Republicans
to sit together which is a rare thing
that they can actually talk to each
other and maybe it brings some civility
to Washington but I think that my
concern about book reading is not just
the illiteracy problem in our country
twelve percent of the people are
functionally illiterate function over it
means you can't read past the
fourth-grade level twenty twelve percent
of our people but a large percentage our
people are illiterate which is to say
they can read but they don't in our
country this is my country this is hard
to believe thirty percent of people who
graduate from college never read another
book in their life their view is I got
my degree I don't need to another Brooke
look it's sad
now I've I can't cite any one book that
I would say is the most important book
you know I've read so many books I'm
inspired by so many I just finished the
mention one I just read the other day I
never you the author about one of the
most amazing things ever
in the last 200 years is a book by a guy
named Scott Berg on Charles Lindbergh
Charles Lindbergh became the most famous
person in the history of the world when
he flew 33 and a half hours from New
York to Paris why so famous because that
was the first time that the world was
communicating with each other so people
knew about all over the world
it was a 33 and a half hour flight he
wanted a prize for doing it and he
became the rest of his life one of the
most famous people on the earth and it's
a stunning book and the most stunning
thing is the man won the Pulitzer Prize
for it and he did this enormous research
he spent 10 years writing this book he
knew everything and then after the book
came out he got a letter a call from
somebody saying that he didn't have one
thing in the book and it was that was a
call that led to a letter and it turned
out that Charles Lindbergh who had been
married for his whole life from the age
of 27 or 29 to Anne Morrow and had
fathered five children with her at one
of whom was kidnapped and killed that he
had seven children with three different
German women and that had not come out
and one of the children of the German
women had written to the Scott Berg and
said by the way you should have known
that he had this other life so you know
when you look at great men and women
sometimes they have a life that you
don't know about so he had these seven
children I guess some of whom or maybe
all of whom the three German women are
alive but that was a book that I just
read recently and it's good I'd
recommend another book about American
history that won the Pulitzer Prize
called the Hemings of Monticello about
Thomas Jefferson's affair with Sally
Hemings with whom he fathered most
likely six children and how he you know
whether it was an affair or sexual
relationship that was inappropriate
when our you wanted to find it he spent
39 years of his life in a relationship
with a slave and fathered six children
with herself her stunning book but there
there are a lot of great books I just
too many for me to think of which is the
most important one other questions yes
sir
thank you very much it's a pleasure to
finally see you in person after the
peer-to-peer conversations which are
extremely entertaining I'll talk about
that yeah about Donald Trump so you both
are rich you have a kind of a TV show
here's two piers you write your Prentiss
do you think you might get into politics
later oh yeah I don't think so let me
talk about what he's talking about um I
I was a asked by somebody to become the
president of the Economic Club of
Washington which you've never heard of
but it's an economic club they have in
all big cities and the job was to get
one business speaker a quarter to come
up and let that person speak and then an
audience about this size would be
members of the club and they would send
up cars and I would read the cards to
the speaker and and ask questions well
it turned out that most business people
are awful speakers they were reading
something somebody else had written and
they were terrible and then the
questions coming up from the audience
were worse and I saw I would get the
cars and I would pretend I was reading a
question from the car but I was making
it up and I was trying to make up a
humorous question to live in people up
and so I realized after a while I'll
junked the format I'll just do
interviews and so I started a way of
interviewing people where I would
interview them about their life how they
rose from typically obscurity and came
up and asked him every three or four
questions some humorous questions so it
got to be well-known and this and then
Bloomberg came along the TV the
communications company and said would I
do these interviews on TV and I've now
been doing it for a year or so and I've
done Bill Gates and Warren Buffett Oprah
Winfrey and George Bush and Bill Clinton
and so forth and it's it's fun to do and
I do it without using notes because I my
view is if you use notes you inevitably
it's a crutch and you don't need the
crutch if you have a good memory you can
remember the questions you're going to
ask and you should you know be able to
do this so if you have notes if you ever
doing an interview and you look down as
soon as you look down you lose the eye
contact with the person you're
interviewing and that it doesn't seem
like a real conversation anyway on the
Donald Trump situation I've mentioned
one time I was looking for somebody the
Economic Club of Washington to - coming
out as a speaker and I was wracking my
brain I'd taken I already had so many
prominent people somebody said how about
Donald Trump I said well no this is for
serious businesspeople not
but somebody said he has a TV show I had
never actually watched the card the
apprentice I had never watched it but
but you know apparently he became famous
for that so I knew him a little bit so I
did write him a letter and said would
you like to speak and right away he came
down and writing right he broke me back
to letter said yes I'll come okay so
like three weeks later we organized it
and it came down anyway he was a bigger
draw than I thought we normally we'd had
three or four hundred people we had 800
people and so in the green room before
he said David ask me anything you want
but he asked me two questions for sure
ask me number one if I'm gonna run for
president I said president what I said
president I says I said Tom you have no
chance I've been involved in government
I know you have no chance of being
elected you'll be embarrass yourself II
said well I'll try for a few months to
see how it goes and then I said what's
the second question woman asks ask me if
my hair is real and then you can feel my
hair to see it's real I don't I don't
know II asked you a question I want to
feel your hair I just want to feel
comfortable doing that but okay so we
had the interview and it went very well
and you can that's it's on the internet
now it's about an hour interview and he
told me later he loved the interview he
sent me a letter saying David was a
great interview the best I've had it was
well thought through and so forth and so
on and by the way did you know David
that it was the highest rated show in
the history of c-span it was covered
live on c-span ik but little thing in
our country and I didn't realize it was
that good so I called the president
c-span said what were the ratings how
could they be behind he said there are
no ratings nobody could know so so
one of the questions I asked Donald
Trump was I said Donald do you ever have
something called self doubt about
anything so what is that what is it self
doubt what is that I didn't know what
the self doubt was because he obviously
very a short person
look he's let me just address him and
let me conclude with that none of them
out of my time but on Donald Trump is
somebody I didn't expect would be
pressing United States obviously and he
didn't expect to be President I think he
had a concession speech prepared that
day and he thought he was gonna lose
because of all the problems he had in
the campaign Hillary Clinton was maybe
thought to be more qualified and in our
country we have a we have a system of
polling people and they leave the polls
when you people leave a voting booth we
have people that work for various
organizations they ask you how you vote
and these are called exit polls and
they're amazingly people are pretty
accurate and telling people how they
voted and so by these things were
accumulated are calculated during the
day and by four o'clock in the afternoon
most people who are political
cognoscenti or relevant people will have
the polls and so at four o'clock in the
afternoon of the Election Day all of us
who saw the polls knew that Donald Trump
was gonna lose because the polls showed
Hillary couldn't was gonna win Florida
go to North Carolina ago in Pennsylvania
Ohio because she was consistently two or
three points ahead turned out that the
polling data was wrong because of
20-some percent of the people voted
before the election day and some people
must have lied or whatever they didn't
wanna admit they voted for Trump
whatever he won but he wasn't expecting
to win he thought at four o'clock five
o'clock six o'clock based on the X
suppose he was gonna lose the other
concession speech prepared and she had
only a acceptance speech prepared she
had no concession speech so he was
shocked and and you know I talked to me
after the election and said I think you
should do a better job than you've done
to date of of seeing the touching the
symbols of our country go see the
Declaration of Independence go see the
Magna Carta go see the the Tomb of the
Unknown Soldier go to Arlington Memorial
Cemetery and actually so people you
understand that the history of our
country in its heritage and he's begun
to do that but he's he's different
there's no doubt he's different than
other people he has some you know he
doesn't have a big background in
government he's a person ever the very
short attention span and you know I just
it's just different but the camera's not
on when I'll say some other things but I
but he's different but I think it's a
fantasy why people don't like him to
think that he is not happy with the job
with the job he's doing I did have a
dinner recently the White House and I
sat next in for a couple of hours and
talked to him and I I said you like the
job I love the job you know how was Air
Force one it's great how was Camp David
it's great he likes the job so it's a
fantasy to think that he's gonna just
say I don't like the job I'm not doing
good gentlemanly so fantasy you think
he's gonna be in peachy he's not gonna
be impeached the Republicans they're not
gonna impeach him it's a fantasy to
think that that he's not gonna run for
reelection he's gonna run for reelection
I don't know if he'll win but he's
certainly gonna run for reelection and
in a second he he implies he's not he'll
have lost whatever power he has so he's
different than most presidents we had
he's a lot different he's not well-liked
in Europe for sure I think he's
reasonably well-liked in China
reasonably well-liked in Japan
reasonably well-liked in Israel
reasonably well liked in Saudi Arabia
Europe he is hated more or less he just
and I don't think he'll be visiting this
country anytime soon because turay samay
came over early on that showed that
there was a special relationship and she
invited him to a state visit in England
but a state visit requires the approval
of Parliament and I'm not sure the
Parliament is gonna vote for a state
visit so I don't not sure he'll be here
anytime soon but he's it's a challenge
anything to answer your question I'm not
running anytime soon so you don't have
to worry but everybody else in the
country is Ronnie because Donald Trump
has convinced people you don't need to
be traditionally qualified so anybody's
running that you know the head of
Starbucks is thinking of running the
head of Disney's thinking and running
Mark Cuban a TV star is running
everybody's running and because you
don't need to be traditionally qualified
I did an interview on my TV show of
Oprah Winfrey and I said are you
thinking of running for president and
she said you know I never thought before
I was qualified but now I think I could
run so you never know actually of Oprah
one she beat Iran she'd be a tough a
tough opponent so am i with that yeah
come join me
you